# Properties File
Set the following parameters in the application.properties file in your resources directory.

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:sqlserver://localhost;databaseName=PIMS
spring.datasource.username={your username}
spring.datasource.password={your password}
spring.datasource.driverClassName=com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDriver
spring.jpa.show-sql=true
spring.jpa.hibernate.dialect=org.hibernate.dialect.SQLServer2012Dialect
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto = none
```

# Local Database Connection Instruction
The database is run on Microsoft SQL Server. Using Microsoft SQL Server Manager (will be referred to as MSSQL from now on), you can connect to your local database through the API with these steps:
  1. First, login to your local database by opening MSSQL, selecting "Windows Authentication", and entering "." as thte server name (no quotation marks)
  2. Create the PIMS database. Go into the database/ directory in the repo and set up the database by running the `init.sql` query with your data generated by `init.sh`.
  3. In the database/ directory, run "create_login.sql" to create a login account to the PIMS database with the username "administrator" and password "admin12345"
  4. Close MSSQL, and open SQL Server 2019 Configuration Manager.
  5. Click on `SQL Server Network Configuration`, right-click on `TCP/IP`, and select "Enable" if it is not already on there.
  6. Click on `SQL Server Services` and right-click `SQL SERVER (MSSQLSERVER)`. Select "Restart".
  7. You should now be able to login to the database using SQL Server Authentication with the username "administrator" and password "admin12345".
  8. Change the password in the resources from {your username} to "administrator" and {your password} to "admin12345". Note that due to this database being completely local, the resources file may already have a username/password set to these dummy values, or another set of usernames/passwords. Simply use the default provided in these instructions, or use your own if you set up the account manually/change the .sql file that generates the login.
  8. You can now start the API once your configuation is set.